Yuxi Normal University, formerly Yuxi Teacher¡¯s College, was founded in 1978 and was merged with Yuxi Adult Education Center and Yuxi Teachers¡¯ School to form the present entity in March 2000 with approval from the Ministry of Education. It passed the appraisal of undergraduate teaching by the Ministry of Education in 2007. In 2008, it won the title of Yunnan Model School on Operation by Law. In 2009, it was awarded the title of National Unit with Excellence in Spiritual Construction by the State Commission on Civilization Construction, as one of the two universities in Yunnan to win this title. 
    The university now has two campuses. The main campus is built on the side of Hongta Hill with Hongta Forest Park at its back. It occupies 1,098.64 acres of land and the scenery around it is picturesque. Buildings and facilities take up 280,000 square meters, including teaching buildings, auditoriums, sports fields, gym, and squares. The library possesses more than 600,000 books. Digital network has covered the whole campus. There are 11 schools under the university. It now has 34 undergraduate programs in 7 fields, including literature, laws, education, management, science, engineering, and agriculture. The School of Adult Education itself has 39 undergraduate programs. Two subjects, Fine Arts and Geography, are approved to be characteristic programs at the provincial level, and Thai Language has been appraised to be key construction program. 
    Of 679 staff, 498 are teachers, of whom 40 has medium or high ranks and 136 are vice professors. About 208 teachers have master¡¯s degrees and 22 have doctoral degrees. The school now has 8,324 full-time students. The School of Adult Education has 2,562 students in registration and has finished social training 37,304 persons and organized social examinations of various kinds 63,375 persons. 
    It has one key construction program at the provincial level, that is, environmental chemistry, one key nurturing program, that is, humane geography, 10 key construction programs, which are ethnic fine arts, athlete education and training, theoretical physics, Chinese philosophy, foreign linguistics and applied linguistics, fundamental mathematics, information and communication engineering, curriculum and teaching theory, regional economics, and laws of folk business, and 4 research institutes, including Research Institute of Culture and Social Development of Ethnic Minorities, Research Center of Yuxi Economic and Social Development, Research Center of Ecology of Yuxi Plateau Lakes, and Research Center of College Students¡¯ Aesthetics and Quality Expansion. It has undertaken 202 research projects, of which, 2 were funded by the national science funds, 3 were funded by the national social science funds, 5 were funded by the Ministry of Education, 5 belonged to Yunnan provincial planning projects of philosophy and general social sciences, 16 belonged to Yunnan provincial planning projects of science and technology, 110 were funded by scientific research funds from the Provincial Educational Department of Yunnan, 2 were funded by Yuxi Bureau of Science and Technology, and 59 were funded by the university. Academic writings, translated works, compiled books or textbooks published by teachers from Yuxi Normal University amounted to 156 items, of which 6 have been granted patent by the state. Its staff has published 3,125 papers and 116 of them have been cited by SCI, EI, ISTP, and Journal of the People¡¯s University. One hundred and three researches have received awards at municipal and provincial levels. (Above statistics were collected by December, 2009) 
    Since 2004, the university has built up educational cooperation with TG Asian Institute in Hong Kong, Melbourne University and La Trobe University in Australia, Sahmyook University in Korea, and Chiangrai Rajabhat University, Uttaradit Rajabhat University, Monfort College, and Assumption College Lampang in Thailand. It has built up a co-educating system with three Thai universities and one Korean university with mutual recognition of credits, exchange of teachers and students, academic and cultural exchanges, and chances of practicum and internship for students. It has established 7 sites for teaching practice in Thailand and modeling sites for teaching Chinese as a foreign language. In cooperation with Dali University and Honghe University, it has built up a DHY Chinese Language Training Center in Phnom Penh University in Cambodia. It has been a participant of Sino-American educational exchange project titled 1+2+1 Project for Training Chinese and American Talents. 
    As the sole higher educational institute with the authority of granting undergraduate degrees, Yuxi Normal University has been basing its service on improvement of educational quality and has established an educational system emphasizing on training creativity of students relying on cultural accumulation and economic development of Yuxi.